Welcome to Topic 2 of
your final project. At the start of each topic, I'm going to guide you through what you need to
do at this point, and all of the steps and we start with
what phase we're in. We're now in the discovery
phase of the project. We started that in
the last topic, choosing a project template
and background research. Now, we really need to focus in on the
aims of the project, which you probably were
developing in the last topic, and developing the project
pitch and proposals. This is really where you're getting to the concepts
of what you're doing and then in
the next topic, we'll get further into
the literature review, which is very closely linked
to the background research. I said at the beginning that testing is
throughout the project. It isn't just during
development or at the end, you need to do it all the time. But what does testing
mean during discovery, when you haven't got
any software yet? The testing really means, does your background research
support your project idea? So you need to be constantly iterating your idea
as you research, as you read, as
you watch videos, whatever your research is. As you're seeing new bits
of background research, you're testing the ideas
you have in the project, you're thinking,
does this bit of research support my idea or do I need to change my idea
and do I need to iterate? Just like software development
is an iterative process, so design and concept is
an iterative process where you're constantly
coming up with ideas, reading, comparing your ideas
to what you're reading, and then possibly changing
your project and then thinking of new areas to read based on what you've
already found out. Still even at this stage, think of it in terms
of a testing process. So what are we doing
in this topic? It's part of the
discovery phase. The first thing you
actually need to do is your project ethics. This is really checking
that you're not doing anything that could
be potentially harming people or cause harm, and I'll talk about
that in a sec. But this is going to be a quiz. So you're going to
be asked a number of questions that check
exactly the type of research and work you're
going to do and make sure that they don't
violate any ethical norms. Possibly, you might answer no to some of these
questions or sorry, yes, which is the wrong answer, so you are doing
something that is potentially ethically
problematic, that's not an absolute failure, but you would need to
discuss the project with your tutor and seek
further ethical approval. So we generally recommend
that you don't do anything that slide up
in the ethics quiz. Then at the end of this topic, you'll be submitting
a project proposal which is marked by your tutor, which will build on your
pitch from last topic. What is the ethics proposal? In academia, we have a
strong code of ethics, the kind of research, the kind of work we can do. That means that we
really cannot do any work that would cause
harm or legal problems. This goes back a
long way obviously, but in some ways, it was formed in
the discipline of psychology in the 1950s
and '60s where there was certainly experiments that
caused ethical problems. A famous one is the Milgram
obedience experiment. What happened was that participants were invited
in to do what they were told was an experiment on learning and there
was someone they were told was another participant in another room who was being
tested on some learning. If that other participant
got things wrong, the main participant had to give the other participant
an electric shock. What they found was quite
shockingly, no pun intended, that many of the
participants were willing to severely electric-shock
another person to the level at which that other person
appeared to be dead. Of course, if you were actually
killing the other person, that would be deeply unethical.
They weren't doing that. The other participant
was an actor and they were not
receiving electric shocks. But nonetheless, the impact
on the participant that was supposedly giving
the electric shocks was really traumatic,
as you can imagine. If you think you've
killed another person, whether or not that person was actually killed and they
were told it wasn't, they knew after that point that they were capable
of doing that. That's a really deeply
shocking experience. At that time it was decided
that we needed to control ethics of research so that people could not want
that kind of experiment again. Oddly enough I was
involved in running a replication of
that experiment, but in virtual reality. It was very clear that there
was no other real person. That was a project led by [inaudible] who gave
the guest lecture on virtual reality course. What that introduces that
every university has to have an ethics review board that checks any research
when the student work, that it's ethically safe. What could be ethically unsafe? Anything that could potentially
harm human participants. Anything particularly
involving children or vulnerable adults is
carefully scrutinized. It's particularly true, for
example, of medical patients. Once you're working with
children or medical patients, you have to be very
careful and we would certainly recommend you
do not work with children. You particularly do not work with medical
patients because you really require a whole set
of medical ethics there, which we as computer
scientists we're not qualified to approve any
metric medical intervention. You can do health projects but
not with medical patients. It's also tight
controls on animals, if there's animals again, we recommend you don't
work with animals. But other things as well
as that kind of harm, environmental harm, working
with dangerous substances, and one that is
really a bit more likely in computer science is the use of copyrighted material. You need to be very careful with copyrighted material and
the use of personal data. In the UK, we have very
strong data protection laws. You need to abide by that. That brings me to another point. The laws are different
in different countries. Because this is the University
of London degree based in the UK, wherever you are, we will be
applying UK Research Ethics. This is among the
strictest in the world. I think they should apply
well to other countries, but you should of course, be careful that
you do not violate any laws in your own country that may not apply in the UK. It's very important to
follow those ethics. But essentially, in
the ethics quiz, if you can say that
you're not doing any of the ethically risky things
that are listed, you're fine. It's possible that you could go ahead in discussion
with your tutor with more rigorous ethics procedure if you are doing those it
can be really essential. But I personally
encourage you to look at ways in which
you don't do that. For example, you may
be designing something that's ultimately
for children or medical patients
that could be used, but test it with adults. Test it with non
vulnerable healthy adults if you're doing that testing. That's typically what happens with medical apps generally. You go through a
testing phase with healthy adults to
make sure it works before you go into medical
phase with patients, where things are taken
much more carefully. That was the ethics, first thing you need to do. Now let's move on to
project proposal, which is what you need to
do at the end and it's the main deliverable
of this topic. It will be a three-minute
video presentation, just like the one you
did in the last topic , but developed from that. As you'll probably see, we'll be giving you opportunity to practice most of
the things you're doing by peer reviews before
you actually submit them. It's very important for you
to take on that practice. That's a really good
opportunity for you. You should include the
idea for the projects. You should name the template
that you're using so that markers can just
cross-refer to the templates, and give the motivation
for the project, which is, why is this
an important project? This should be based on a few examples of
related projects. We recommend 2-4. You can do more if you like, but it's probably difficult to fit that much more in the time. Really your motivation and the idea for the
project should be grounded in that research, as I've said when I
talked about testing, you should always be testing
that the idea works based on the needs of users, etc. How are we going to mark this? Well, it's going to
use the same criteria as we used in the last
topic for the pitch. Does the report display
knowledge of the area of study, previous work and
academic literature? This is those tactful bits
of background research. Does it critically evaluate
the previous works? Are you really making
that arguments about from the features of
that previous work, the benefits, the
problems with it, the gaps in that literature to the work that
you're doing yourself? Is the project concept justified based on
the domain and users? You really need to make sure that you've developed an
idea that really fits well, that is really based on
that background research. That background research is, in essence, key to
the project proposal. That's really the important
thing that you're doing in this discovery phase. That's what discovery means, and it's really strongly informing what you're doing
in your project idea. This is the first big
milestone of your project. This is the first thing you'll
be submitting to tutors. It doesn't count
your final grade, but you need to pass it. If you fail you'll get another
opportunity to amend it. But it's also really important moment to get feedback from a professional tutor to inform the further
development of your project. It's really important
to do this well, to really think this
through because for the remaining 21 weeks you'll
be working on this project. You need to make sure
it's both a good idea, one that you can achieve
and it's a design phase, and also one that you're
passionate about. I mean, I think that's really important and we've
heard it from our students and our teachers that the thing that will drive you through the 21
weeks is the passion and excitement you
have of developing these projects and
make sure that this is something you really want to do and
you're really driven by. Do that work really, think through what you're doing, come up with a great
project's idea, and then you've got your
opportunity to actually do it.